.. _Pointing-model-run-202002:

Pointing model run 2020/02
==========================

On the night of 2021/02/19 (`SUMMIT-4829`_) we took some additional data for the pointing model.

During the same run we also took new data for the optical lookup table (both for M1 pressure and hexapod).
After reducing the data and producing new lookup tables we realized that the newer data was not compatible  with previous data.
Most importantly, we noticed that the collimation coefficients (especially hexapod y-axis correction) for the new table where considerably different at lower elevation.

The new lookup table was loaded into the ATAOS component and used during the last night of the run.

The idea was to combine the new pointing data with the :ref:`previous data <Pointing-model-run-202003>` to obtain an improved model.
Unfortunately, with the updated lookup tables the data is no longer compatible, specially at lower elevation.

Furthermore, the data taken this time is slightly different than the regular procedure.
Instead of centering the start in the field of view, we decided to mark the position wherever the field landed after we performed wavefront sensing.
We also added an acquisition image just before the positions was marked.

Therefore, we have to add a post-processing step to the data, where we measure the offset required to center the target and update the pointing file by applying the offset.
We developed a notebook to perform this task, which can be found in `ts_analysis_notebook`_.

.. _SUMMIT-4829: https://jira.lsstcorp.org/browse/SUMMIT-4829
.. _ts_analysis_notebook: https://github.com/lsst-ts/ts_analysis_notebooks
